# HAWC
#Fossil fuels are an unsustainable source of energy, and their combustion harms human health, according to the World Health Organization. #There is an urgent need to expand renewable energy resources. While many experts agree that wind power is the most viable alternative, #resources are wasted due to inaccurate predictions of turbine power output. If power plants are wasting money and energy, they have no #incentive to use wind power. To address this problem, I created a way to make wind power more feasible using machine learning. Machine #learning is a type of artificial intelligence that teaches the computer to learn from existing data and predict outcomes for future data. #My innovation -- Hybrid Algorithms for Wind-power Computation (HAWC) implements several types of algorithms that predict turbine power #output: 2-layer neural network, 3-layer neural network, linear regression, and polynomial regression. My hypothesis that the 3-layer #neural network is the most accurate for this particular problem was proven correct, since more layers provide a more detailed iterative #prediction method. Layers refer to the steps a neural network executes to process data, train the algorithm, and produce output. An #ensemble of the four algorithms I tested has not previously been implemented, and is a contribution to the field because of its high #accuracy. My results suggest that HAWC has the potential to make wind power more feasible by allowing power plants to integrate wind #energy into the power grid.
